this isn't part a review of a new album
by daylight a new rap album a new
project from a hip-hop artist and it's
in part a little bit of autobiographical
political commentary telling you why the
album means so much to me maybe this
video will be meaningful to you even if
you have no interest in the album I was
in a museum in France
recently I guess about six months ago
now with my girl was Museum of
indigenous peoples and their cultures
around the world a lot of emphasis on
Africa and some of the remote islands of
Polynesia places that were colonized by
France in the past a little bit of an
implicit anti colonial narrative going
on but for the most part it was a museum
of fine art showing the objects tell me
something about the religion and customs
and folk ways of these indigenous people
and you know one that really got to me
was the exhibit on a new Ireland new
have you ever heard of New Ireland and
in French the whole exhibit about the
people and culture of religion and new
Ireland it's showing you these you know
ethnically black tribal people and it's
referring to them as the new Irish the
people of New Ireland now you know I've
dealt with many different chapters of
you know the history of colonialism and
it's I don't know it's it's boggling to
me in in different ways but the reason
why it hurts me so much is I know with
me right now here in the United States
and Canada
people live in New England and it never
really occurs to them just how upsetting
bizarre inappropriate and ultimately
genocide 'el and colonialist it is for
white people to be living
this place called New England part of me
always wants to scream out when I see
that kind of thing just that kind of
name on the map or that kind of that
kind of name painted on a sign no this
is never going to be New England New
England is an idea and a concept you
painted on this sign and wrote on this
map as part of a whole history of
colonialism slavery and genocide that
we're all supposed to reject now but
who's actually challenging it who's even
questioning it let alone who's rejecting
it you know the New England discourse
the New England mythology is is what's
dominant and here on the other side of
the world this island almost nobody's
heard of or cares about politically
today this place of no no great power
and importance economically here's New
Ireland and as soon as I could I went to
Google the history of this place to find
out well what was it called before what
did they call it before Europeans
conquered it annexed it and started
calling it New Ireland and you know you
know what the history was that I found
oh well used to be called New France
used to be called new Batavia it was
fought over by the French the Germans
the Dutch and ultimately the British
Empire and we have a whole sequence of
attempts to name and rename this part of
the world this set of islands and none
of the names reflect or connect to the
indigenous people or their language or
their culture in any way no interest
that's new Ireland and there I am in
Paris looking at these Spears and
shields and carved idols of gods and
this attempt in this museum to somehow
symbolically write the wrong
of colonial and genocidal and slave
trading history beholding the absurdity
of New Ireland and I know when I'm stuck
with is coming from a continent North
America where people don't even perceive
it as absurd that they live in places
called New England in New York it's not
it's not New York it's never gonna be a
New York sure you know where Yorkshire
is in the City of York and England do
you know that do you know who used to
live there before they were driven to
extinction do you know what language
they spoke in in the area that's now New
York I do I know that you can look it up
on Wikipedia too
I think a very very small percentage of
people living in New York can tell you
what language was spoken there before
Europeans named it New York I think very
few people in Los Angeles can tell you
what language is spoken there before it
was given the name Los Angeles and I
think almost nobody is aware and nobody
cares that those languages are extended
so this rap album this project from
daylight you know a lot of people are
going to assume it's just a joke and
it's not it's satire and I think it's
probably more meaningful than any album
that was ever put out by wu-tang and
there's joking around on it there's
there's humor there's satire but in many
ways it delivers the political message
that a group like wu-tang kind of
flirted with for years but never really
got down to delivering or you know a
specific rapper like ODB kind of played
with maybe he's gonna make a statement
that somehow anti-establishment and of
course ODB had
conspiracy theory rapping and rambling
to no particular purpose and you know I
get the sense of humor I get the
punchlines there are parts of the this
project part of this album that make me
laugh too or made me laugh the first
time I heard it but what stays with me
what makes me want to make this video
right now is that this album also
contains rhymes contains content that's
really lamenting the tragedy most people
don't want to face up to which is why do
we speak English at all you know really
questioning why do these people worship
a God in the King James Bible oh he's
got specific lyrics about that about
King James and why King James's name is
written on the Bible and what that
really means why do we have African
slaves living in North America speaking
English with this religion and this
culture and you know who invented this
language who invented this society who
invented this pen there are some really
simple hard-hitting lines here about
look what they did to the Mayans Mayan
civilization look what they did to
Alaska look what they did to Hawaii
they're never going to give the land
back who owns the land and who pays the
rent and there's a real kind of agonized
sincerity to that and to my mind it
shines through in the midst of all this
satire and I think it's made even more
effective and more impactful because
it's bundled up with joking around about
the vacuous Ness of 21st century
internet conspiracy theories and
hysteria and that people think they're
challenging the basis our society is
built on by complaining about it on
Instagram
by complaining about it on Facebook and
you're not I mean as as he points out
you know you think you're challenging
the system by bringing your Bible into
court there are all these really
interesting and evocative lines packed
up in this short project the kinds of
self-defeating acts of rebellion and the
heart of it all I think there's a lot of
pent-up anguish here that you know I've
never heard another rapper give voice to
I think a lot of projects from wu-tang
and odv wanted to or try to even some
songs but it'll be once in a while you
know GZA RZA those guys III really can't
remember any project that quite manages
to get this feeling out on paper and you
know onto the track and into your ear so
effectively and it's it's a remarkable
fact that it comes out not in some kind
of dead serious
of Tupac Shakur style you know lecture
but it comes out in the myths of satire
that remains upbeat funny and impactful
that's the album review 2018 was a weak
year in hip-hop and it's now coming to a
close I have no hesitation saying from
my perspective this is the best album or
this is the best rep project of this
year